Contents  lists available at  journal  homepage:  
3153, Piscataway, NJ 08854, United  States
Keywords:
 A B S T R A C T
Because  ﬁrms  do  not  operate in isolation, they  are  bound by the  structure of the  networks in which they  are embedded. This structure has  implications on  a ﬁrm's  ability to  access  resources and  utilize them  to  their ad- of network power and  cohesion to allow  for heightened ﬁnancial performance.
 2013)  or failure  (Bode, Hübner  and Wagner,  2014)  of a ﬁrm's ﬁnancial
1478-4092/ © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
 apparent, as ﬁnancial coordination between entities can depend “on the terms  of payment that  may  include  penalty for late  payments and/or discounts for early  payments” (Gupta  and  Dutta,  2011:47). The com-
 network) in  sourcing  decisions  leads  to  ﬁnancial gain  (cost  savings). Further, Vos et al. (2016) examine whether or not  there  are  ﬁnancial beneﬁts   attainable to  ﬁrms  that  expand   their  supply  bases  globally, ﬁnding  that  there  are potential performance beneﬁts  to be attained are
Variable operationalization and  descriptions.
 
Dependent/ independent/ control
 
 
 Accounts Receivables
 ⎝	Net  Sales 	⎠
 Dependent	For  ROA we  use  the  commonly used  operationalization:
Network  Powerf ,t = λxf   =      n     ai,j xn   i = 1, ..., n ∀ t
 Independent 	Finally, to  calculate the  diminishing returns to  network cohesion, we  take the  quadratic of its  linear counterpart:
 Network Cohesion   Squared
 = (Network Cohesion    )
 f ,t 	f ,t  2
Focal Firm  Network Sizef ,t = ∑n   ai,j ∀ t
Firm  Assets 	Control	Firm  Assets=Log(Total  Assets)
 
 between supply chain structure (of which cohesion  is necessarily a part)
 We  label  these  matrices At ,  where   t  represents the  year  under   observation (t = 1,2,…,19). Then,  each  element, a ij,  of the  matrix  (for year  t) was assigned  a value  of either  0 or 1 (thus  its binary  construc-
 the  resulting sample   is  a  dynamic panel  data  set.  Furthermore, the dependent variables are  continuous in their  distributions. While longitudinal data  allows researchers to account for dynamic variable relationships and one needs to take into account several  complexities that arise such as autocorrelation, heteroscedasticity, and endogenous regressors.  Fortunately, longitudinal econometric methods exist that  can take  into  account such complexities and  address  additional issues that exist in non-longitudinal designs,  such as endogeneity and  unobserved heterogeneity. In addition, such longitudinal methods allow for a more robust  picture of the  dynamics of the  network that  a traditional panel
+ Note  that  'Dependent Variable' refers  to each  model's dependent variable, and  was  concentrated for space  considerations.
Fig. 1. Diminishing e
 
 increases   to  a  ﬁrm's  network  cohesion   has  in  explaining  its  CCC,
Fig. 2. Diminishing eﬀect  of network cohesion on ROA.
 network size  on  the  CCC model  is − 129.27, which  is negative and statistically signiﬁcant (p < .01),  suggesting  that  as a ﬁrm's  ego net-
Theoretical contributions.
 
Supply chain  ﬁnance 	Network  theory 	Resource  dependence theory
 
Network cohesion plays the  largest role  in engendering a ﬁrm's eﬃciency in their ﬁnancial
 
The  results add  to  the  conversation around the contingent beneﬁts of density (i.e.  Burt  (1992) vs. Coleman, 1988) where by  ﬁrms experience
 
The  approach herein integrates RDT into  the
 positive outcomes, but  up  to  a certain point.
 determinants  of
 ﬁnancial success.
 ﬁrm's ability to  assimilate ﬁnancial reserves from ﬁnancial resources). diminishing returns
Thus, there is an  optimal point of cohesion in the network that ﬁrms should strive to  achieve.
Network power, in contrast to  network cohesion, appears to  positively aﬀect earnings performance of the  ﬁrm. reduce dependence appears to  increase earnings
 Findings suggest that loosely connected networks
The  results extend the  context around the importance of eigenvector centrality in networks.
 From the  RDT perspective, the  results are  two- fold:  (1)  cohesive networks engender access to tightly connected local  resources, which are more
 Accordingly, the  results  herein  contribute to this  discussion  by articulating   the   importance  of  cohesion   for  engendering  eﬃciency   (i.e. making  better  use of ﬁnancial resources). Speciﬁcally,  when  local network  structure is optimized ﬁrms  are  able  to leverage resources more eﬃciently  and   reduce   the   CCC, thereby  increasing  their   access  to cashﬂow.  In the  context  of RDT, this  result  is also noteworthy.  Speciﬁcally,  the  predominant thinking around why ﬁrms  seek to engage  in
 that  it is these connections have the largest  impact  on earnings performance. We ﬁnd that  the prominence of the ﬁrm's extended network connections (i.e. the degree  to which  the ﬁrm works with key suppliers,
 .
 .
